# Innovation-of-computers

The first generation - electronic computer era (from 1946 when the first computer was successfully developed to the late 1950s). The main characteristics of computers in this period are the use of electronic tubes as basic components, the use of machine language or assembly language programming; Mainly used in scientific and engineering calculations; Calculations can run from thousands to tens of thousands of times per second.

Second generation - The age of transistor computers (from the mid-1950s to the late 1960s). This period of computer mainly used transistors as the basic components, reduced in size, reduced power consumption, improved speed (up to hundreds of thousands of operations per second) and reliability; Magnetic core as the main memory, external memory using disk, tape, etc. The program design adopts high-level language, such as FORTRAN, COBOL, ALGOL, etc. On the software side came operating systems. The range of applications of computers has further expanded, in addition to traditional scientific and engineering calculations, but also in a wider range of fields such as data processing.

Third generation - integrated circuit computer age (from the mid 1960s to the early 1970s). The computer of this period uses integrated circuit as the basic component, the volume is reduced, the power consumption, the price is further reduced, and the speed and reliability are improved greatly; Replacing core memory with semiconductor memory; Calculations can run at hundreds of thousands to millions of times per second; On the software side, operating systems are getting better and better. At this time, the idea of computer design has gradually moved towards standardization, modularization and serialization, and its application is more extensive.

The fourth generation - large-scale integrated circuit computer era (from the early 1970s to the present). The main functional devices of computers in this period were large-scale integrated circuits (LSI). Using semiconductor chips with higher integration as the main memory; The calculation speed can reach a million to a billion times per second. In the aspect of system structure, the research of processor system, distributed system and computer network is developing rapidly. The development of system software has not only realized the automation of computer operation, but also advanced to the direction of intelligence. Various applications emerge in an endless stream, which greatly facilitates users.

In the more than 50 years since the first computer was created, the performance of computers has improved dramatically and the price has dropped dramatically. Since 1982, Japan and some western countries put forward the development of the fifth generation computer tasks, its characteristic is more to implement the intelligent of the computer, hope to be able to break through the original computer architecture, with large and very large scale integrated circuit or other new devices into logical parts, in order to realize the network computing and intelligent computing as the goal. Now with the development of computer technology, there has been a new generation method, that is, the computer according to its function and calculation methods divided into: The new division of mainframe generation, minicomputer generation, Micro computer generation, client/ Server generation and Internet/Intranet generation reflects the new technical content. In the future, computers will continue to develop, from the structure and function and other aspects, there are roughly the following trends:

(1) Supersizing: With the development of science and technology, many departments require higher speed and larger storage capacity of computers, so that computers develop to supersizing.

(2) miniaturization: the computer is smaller, lighter, cheaper, more convenient to be used in various fields and various occasions. The various notebook computers, laptops and palmtop computers on the market are products that are developing in this direction.

(3) Networking: computer network is the product of the continuous development of computer technology and communication technology. Computer network can realize communication and resource sharing between computers. At present, the formation of various computer networks, including LAN and WAN, will undoubtedly accelerate the process of social information.

(4) Multi-media: the main object of traditional computer information processing is characters and numbers. People interact with characters and numbers through keyboard, mouse and monitor. But in human life, there are more pictures, text, sound, image and other forms of information. As the development of digital technology can further improve the performance of the computer, so that the modern computer can set graphics, sound, word processing as a whole, so that people face the sound and color, illustrated information environment, this is usually said multimedia computer technology. Multimedia technology has changed the object and content of information processing profoundly.
